# Project Description


In this project, we will apply data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, we will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

# Dataset


# Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.

# Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.


# Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

# Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

# Dimension Tables

users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


# Project Steps
Below are steps you can follow to complete the project:

# Create Tables
1) Write CREATE statements in sql_queries.py to create each table.
2) Write DROP statements in sql_queries.py to drop each table if it exists.
3) Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.
4) Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.


# Build ETL Processes

Follow instructions in the etl.ipynb notebook to develop ETL processes for each table. At the end of each table section, or at the end of the notebook, run test.ipynb to confirm that records were successfully inserted into each table. Remember to rerun create_tables.py to reset your tables before each time you run this notebook.


# Build ETL Pipeline

Use what you've completed in etl.ipynb to complete etl.py, where you'll process the entire datasets. Remember to run create_tables.py before running etl.py to reset your tables. Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table.

